=About=
'''Chiori Web Server''' is a HTTP/TCP Server allowing for both dynamic content and clients like Android or Standalone Apps.
To give your websites more power, files ending with .groovy are ran though a groovy shell, Which has access to the entire Server API.
Need more power? Then try out the Plugin system that is based on CraftBukkit (A Minecraft Game Server).
The idea was to give you the ability to create amazing websites using the power of Java while taking less time and resources.

=Included Framework=
The development of Chiori Framework in the PHP form will be discontinued but it's evolution will continue from with
this Java Web Server. Porting the framework to Java ment faster load times and less server lag.

=To Do=
* Introduce an Administration Panel for the Framework.
* Make a library that can give standalone and android apps easy access to the TCP abilities of this server.
* Add other database types like SQLite.
* Possiblely switch to a Maven Dependency system.
* Write API Documentation. (You can use Bukkit Docs for plugin writings if needed)
* Add clustering abilities.
* Add better error handling.
* Create a Sandbox Mode.
* Need Beta Testers!
* Start a plugin repository

=Version History=
For the reasons of preservation, I will keep the version history for the PHP Framework here
but any version 5.2 and up will be the Java Port
==Version 1.0==
Original Framework concept first using object oriented programming.
Each page would call framework in the beginning and end of each file
which was later determined to be resource intensive and more work then desired.
==Version 2.0==
First version introducing a loader that would be started using mod_rewrite.
This version also introduced built-in WebDav support, Feature later removed
due to the issue of maintaining the buggy code.
==Version 3==
===Subversion 1===
First introduction of experimental administration panel.
Panel removed in later versions but there are plans to introduce it.
===Subversion 2===
Limited Version, Used as an experimental version to Version 4.0.
==Version 4==
===Subversion 1 (Betarain)===
====Build 0101====
Fourth time completely rewriting source code from scratch.
Version 3 or prior modules not supported in this version.
====Build 0309====
Nothing more then bug fixes.
===Subversion 2 (Betadroid)===
====Build 0319====
First introduction release of component based system.
Changed some function names to be more compliment with personal coding standards.
Rewrote the Database Component to use the new PDO instead of the previous mysql commands.
This change allows multiple db connections, file based db using SQLite and other db types like oracle.
Also added a second level of containers called "Views" which allow for even less theme code.
====Build 0326====
Many more bug fixes. Finished porting 98% of the user module code to a component.
====Build 0606====
Finished porting 99% of all outdated modules and code. Fixed many more bugs.
===Subversion 3 (Sentry)===
====Build 0712====
First build safe for lite production use. Also improved local file loader,
Framework will load the index file of a requested folder if it exists.
Some core framework panel code was added to possibly introduce the
framework panel again but later decided to scrap the idea and wait till later release.
===Subversion 4 (Rainbow Dash)===
====Build 0901====
First version to appear on the GitHub. Made some bug fixes.
==Version 5==
===Subversion 0 (Fluttershy)===
====Build 1106====
Again more code rewrites to make the framework more streamlined and easier to debug.
====Build 1111====
Inported some old code which broke the framework. Fixed in next push.
====Build 1115/1116====
Bug Fixes.
===Subversion 1 (Scootaloo)===
====Build 0106/0107====
Introduced Hooks which are like event listeners. Bug Fixes.
===Subversion 2 (Lunar Dream)===
====Build 0825====
First attempts to port framework to the Chiori Web Server.
====Build 0829====
Major issues resolved. About 60%-70% of framework ported, 20% discarded (to be replaced).
==Version 6==
===Subversion 0 (Sonic Dash)===
====Build 1004====
Switched from Resin to Jetty. Removed Quercus and replaced it with our own Java/PHP hybrid language using the BeanShell libraries
===Subversion 1 (Sonic Dash)===
====Build 1012====
Switched from BeanShell to GroovyShell. Now you can write your web script in uncompiled Java with the joys of Groovy.
===Subversion 2 (Sonic Doom)===
====Build 1212====
Some framework instance/memory handling rewrites. Possiblely broken build.
====Build 1222====
Fixes to the log and console systems. Switched from Jetty to HttpServer (A builtin class of the JRE). Also implemented the TCP server side of the Chiori Web Server for use with Android and Standalone Apps.

=Installation=
==Configuration==
The server configuration will be located in the file "chiori.yml" in the root folder of the running jar and is in the standard format of YAML. This file will generate on first use.

===About YAML===
YAML(tm) is an international collaboration to make a data serialization language which is both human readable and computationally powerful. The founding members of YAML are Ingy döt Net (author of the Perl module Data::Denter), Clark Evans, and Oren Ben-Kiki. YAML emerged from the union of two efforts. The first was Ingy döt Net's need for a serialization format for Inline, this resulted in his Data::Denter module. The second, was the joint work of Oren Ben-Kiki Clark Evans on simplifying XML within the sml-dev group. YAML was first publicized with a <?xmlhack?> article on 12 May 2001. Oren and Clark's vision for YAML was very similar to Ingy's Data::Denter, and vice versa, thus a few days later they teamed up and YAML was born. For more information: http://www.yaml.org/start.html

===chiori.yaml===
Most of these config keys are under development
* server.httpHost: null
The HOST to bind the web server to.
* server.httpPort: 8080
The port to start the web server on.
* server.httpsPort: 443
The port to start the SSL web server on. (Future Use)
* server.tcpHost: null
The HOST to bind the TCP server to.
* server.tcpPort: 1024
The port to start the TCP server on.
* server.admin: chiorigreene@gmail.com
This is the administrator e-mail address for the web server. Future plans to send exceptions and alerts to this address.
* server.allowDirectoryListing: false
If the web browser requests a directory and there is no index file should I like the directory contents?
* server.enableWebServer: true
Should the web server start? Useful is you plan on this being strictly a Tcp Server.
* server.enableTcpServer: true
Should the tcp server start? Useful is you plan on this being strictly a Web Server.
* server.allowQuery: false
Should this server respond to anonymous requests for stats like Software, User Counts, User Inquiries?
* settings.permissions-file: permissions.yml
This is the file used to store built-in permissions. These permissions can be extended and controlled via plugins.
* settings.update-folder: update
This is the folder used for both server and plugin automatic updates.
* settings.plugin-profiling: false
Future Use
* settings.query-plugins: true
Future Use
* settings.shutdown-message: Server Shutdown
This is the message sent to devices and users that have active connections
* settings.whitelist: false
This tells the server if its using a whitelisted user system. Perfect for multiple servers that share the same user table. Whitelisted users are stored in the whitelist.txt file.
* settings.webroot: webroot
Defines the directory used to store web page data. Plans to futher config this per site for home directories.
* settings.ping-packet-limit: 100
Defines the max number of connections per minute. Perfect for DDOS prevention.
* auto-updater.enabled: true
Is the server allowed to automaticly update it's self. Might want to disable this if you plan to run a custom build.
* auto-updater.on-broken
Who to warn if the server or plugins detect that they are running broken builds.
* auto-updater.on-update
Who to tell if an update is ready.
* auto-updater.perferred-channel: stable
What channel of builds do you prefer. stable, beta, alpha, nightly
* auto-updater.host: dl.chiorichan.com
What host address do we check and download updates from
* framework.database.database: chiorifw
Framework Database Name
* framework.database.type: mysql
What driver to use. Currently only supports mysql.
* framework.database.host: localhost
Where to find the database server. Be sure to allow the host if not running locally.
* framework.database.port: 3306
Database port number.
* framework.database.username:
Database Username
* framework.database.password:
Database Password
* framework.sites.defaultTitle: Unnamed Chiori Framework Site
What title to use for unknown domain requests.
* framework.users.operators
Server Operators. Gives defined users limitless access with all permissions.

==File Placement==
On first use all you need is the jar release file "chiori_server.jar" in a folder that writable by the user that will run the program. All required folders and files will be created on first use.

== Database Configuration ==
At the moment, Regardless if your website will be using a database under this framework or not,
The framework will still need a database to keep track of curtain configuration.
We plan to get the SQLite (Flat File) support working very soon which will replace this requirement.

Create a database using the sql file (frameworkdb.sql) included in the repository or release then set the credentials within the "chiori.yml" config file.

=Plugins=
Because this web server has a Plugin System based on Bukkit (A Minecraft Game Server) you can develop Plugins the same way they are done for Bukkit.
The biggest differences is the API has different class nodes (which if you are using an IDE like Eclipse will resolve automaticly) and Not all the same events exist (ie. How do you implement a BlockBreakEvent in a web server?).
You can find a nice beginners tutorial at https://forums.bukkit.org/threads/basic-bukkit-plugin-tutorial.1339/. At the moment the Web Server Plugin system is based on CraftBukkit implmenting Minecraft 1.6 API. There are currently no plans to closely follow the changes that Bukkit will make to there Plugin API but this might change.

Have a plugin you made with our Plugin API that you would like us to help distribute?
We are more then happy to take a look just keep these rules in mind?
* Please respect the original purpose of our framework and not change any of this (There might be exceptions here depending on what your changes are.).
* Be respectful of any of us that you have communication with.
* It's encouraged to distribute your Plugin as open source.

=License=
Chiori Web Server is licensed under the Mozila Public License Version 2.0.
If you decide to use our framework or use any of our code (In part or whole), PLEASE, we would love to hear about it, It's not required but it's generally cool to hear what others do with our stuff.

Any products using the Chiori prefix is considered copyright of Chiori Greene and Greenetree LLC (D.B.A Apple Bloom Company)
(C) 2013 Apple Bloom Company, Greenetree LLC, ChioriFramework, Chiori Web Server. 
